Environmental monitoring has become a major concern for environmentalists in recent times. Rainfall, surface temperature, and water vapor are the most crucial component of the global environment. The present research puts forward an intuitive approach to extract the rainfall, surface temperature, and water vapor data from the higher spatiotemporal resolution satellite imagery. The present study was based on automating the CHRS PERSIANN-CCS rainfall data and MODIS's MOD11 surface temperature and MOD05_L2 water vapor product extraction. The project's output tried to indicate a better way of accessing the rainfall, water vapor, and surface temperature estimation to the users. The prototype has designed to extract the information concerning the user's area of interest in CSV format. This is expected that this prototype will decrease the limitations in the accessibility of the environmental parameters; it could be very helpful in environmental studies, agriculture, disease monitoring, climatology etc., to improve their quality of research and decisions. The conducted study suggests that the pixel-traversal is the best method to accurately extract the pixel value concerning the coordinates from only the user's define areas. It also indicates that Python and Machine Learning are the finest techniques to implement a specific task quickly. The present research output would benefit the people working on remote sensing and geospatial techniques with limited knowledge of time series analysis.
